---
id: "stoicism"
title: "Stoicism"
author: David Aleksovski
featuredImage: featured.jpg
tags: [stoicism]
---

# Are you living happy and fulfilled life?

# Evaluate and improve your life by practicing the art of living (Stoicism)

<br/>

Have you ever asked yourself what makes a certain person good at living? Is it wealth? Power? Education and titles? High positon in the social hierarchy? Successful career? It is really a triggering and an everlasting question.\
We would all agree that none of these answers is a definite and complete solution of the puzzle that will lead us towards ultimate success and happiness in life. Every human generation throughout the history has tried to decode this question and create a universal model, life philosophy or system that will enable people to live happy and smoothly flowing life. In the following period I will work on and publish a series of articles on Stoicism, a brilliant antic philosophy which in my opinion provides unique and thorough concept for personal thriving and success and therefore provides an intriguing answer to the above-stated question-what makes someone good at living. Several years ago I started practicing the general concepts and advices of the stoic philosophy and today I can report increased self-satisfaction, self-confidence and courage, improved health and sounder approach to life in general. The stoics offer a path to good life by taking virtuous, honorable and praiseworthy actions, which enable a man to build strong character and thereby protecting ourselves from shameful and ignorant behavior.\
Please do not take the stoicism as magic pill that will provide quick extraordinary results and change your life for the better overnight. This is the main reason why so many people leave the stoic strategy too early, find it difficult to apply and struggle to succeed. The stoicism is a long-term life strategy and involves step by step approach that requires time, effort and goodwill, which are the cornerstones of self-discipline.

What is actually stoicism?

In a nutshell, a Stoic is a person who loves to learn how to live by applying practical wisdom in his everyday life. Don't you fell that we as a modern nation became too bookish and neglect the practical aspect of life? Take five minutes and make a short evaluation of your education process? How much of the things that you had learnt at school or university could you apply in the real world? Thing about our modern lifestyle, is it practical? In that regard, the stoicism requires from people to step up and apply in the real world what they have learn with their formal or non-formal education. Thereby, the philosophy urges its followers to focus their minds on practical knowledge. Learning how to live is like any other skill that you can acquire, but arguably the most important one and vital for your resume. The stoicism learns us not only to reach happiness and success, but also build emotionally resilient state of mind that will enable us to maintain the happiness and prosperity in life even in stormy weathers.\
In today's hectic world, so many of us seek to be able to stay calm, feel confident and secure, even in the midst of crisis and chaos like the one caused by the covid-19 virus pandemic. One of the most prominent stoic teacher, Seneca, wrote: _"It's the calm confidence you feel when you're living your authentic self in integrity with your highest values. You get that peace of mind because you have an unchanging standard you live by, not like the rest of mankind who continually ebb and flow in their decisions, floating in a condition where they alternately reject things and seek them. It is all about knowing your path and walking that path. It's the feeling we get when we truly and utterly trust ourselves. You're confident that what you're doing is right, and you don't need to listen left and right for what others have to say. You don't need to second guess and compare yourself to others all the time. You trust in what you're doing because you're trying your best, and you're living accordingly to your values and know it's all you can do"_.

Practicing Stoicism helps as to strengthen our character and build emotionally resilient state of mind, improve our personal capacities and. In other words, it teaches how to reach, what in the modern psychology is known as mindfulness. The Stoics promote a set of desirable values such as patience, courage, self-discipline, love and care for human beings. Seneca said _"Stoic philosophy is full of goodness, gentleness, love for human beings, and attention to the common good. The goal is to be useful, to help others, and to take care of ourselves and everybody else"._

The Ultimate promise of Stoicism is that proper application of this life concept will lead us towards happy and fulfilled life. Don't we all want to achieve that?

It an impossible mission to present the entire concept in a single article and as I mentioned before I will continue to write about and promote this philosophy by providing my personal observations on the topic, excerpts and citations from the most prominent stoic teachers and modern authors. I will do my best to break down the key parts of the philosophy and present principles, values and actions that I find practical and applicable in the modern world. I hope that this article will inspire you to dive deep on stoicism and embrace this philosophy to improve your life.

I truly believe that the stoic life strategy is useful and valid in modern times and that gives as many anchors to hold ourselves onto, so we can maintain inner peace, stay calm and confident at all times, even when life gets challenging and tough.

<br/>

David Aleksovski

_Author, Passionate Self-Learner_
