---
id: "personal-environment-01"
title: "Personal Environment"
author: David Aleksovski
featuredImage: daria-nepriakhina.jpg
tags: [personal, environment]
---

# Manage your environment to attain high-level success

<br/>
The human mind is still one of the greatest mysteries for the science and probably the most delicate and complex mechanism in all creation. On the one side, it is amazing how our mind (when employed properly) can bring us to tremendous success, joyful and fulfilled life. On the other side, when the mind works in a negative manner it can produce total failure and make our life miserable. There is a thin line between these two sides and small crisis are sufficient to cause huge distress on our balance- good relationship, productive work and contribution to the community.

Most of the people are partially conscious about the power of mind and the mode in which it operates and they are inclined to associate their failures and defeats with bad luck, poor health, lack of educational and career opportunities, misfortunes and etc. Sorry if I disappoint someone but the mentioned reasons are just self-generated excuses that protect our ego, serve as unhealthy consolation and most of the time are not valid. I strongly believe (in my opinion every person should) that each of us is an intelligent human being and inherited mental capacity to develop his abilities and character through live that will enable him to face every challenge that occurs along the way. I genuinely support the Stoics&#39; premise that every person possesses the capacity to thrive and to continuously strive to reach the best version of himself. The main challenge and secret in the same time is to learn to harness your mind and make it work towards personal advancement and prosperity. Unfortunately, most of us did not have the opportunity to get proper education and learn relevant techniques for mind control and positive thinking at school or university. Additionally, most of the parents while raising us, are not aware of or neglect the importance of this educational aspect.

What makes our mind work in favorable or unfavorable way in terms of our happiness and success?

Just like our body needs high-quality healthy food to function properly (and we are all aware of this fact and in that regard we spent millions of dollars for organic food, vitamins, supplements etc.), our mind in the same way needs healthy mind food.
What is actually mind food?
Although this question seems complex, it has simple answer- our environment. We can often hear the phrase &quot;that the environment- home, school, university, neighborhood etc. shapes us&quot;. We know this as a cliché or a proverb, but the impact of our environment is much deeper than the most of the people can think of.

Unfortunately, unlike body nutrition we do not pay adequate attention to our mind food intakes. Our goals, attitudes, preferences, ambitions and future is formed and depends heavily on our environment-the food which we feed our mind with.

Create your own mind nutrition program

How to create your own system of beliefs, positive thinking and create supportive environment towards personal fruition and prosperity is the main focus and objective of this website and it will be the common thread of every article posted here. At this point I will provide several general guidelines and proven strategies.
First of all, delete the following thoughts of your memory:

-   &quot;High level success is beyond my capacity&quot;;
-   &quot;High level success is for people who are lucky and born in favorable conditions;
-   &quot;Attaining success is not worth the time and effort. I am really happy at this level of success&quot;;

The vast majority of people are victims (entirely or partially) of this system of negative and self-destructive beliefs. Create a daily habit to repeat to yourself that you possess the required capacity to thrive and succeed. That is proven truth indeed.

The next step is to neutralize all suppressive elements of your environment that anyhow undermine your self-esteem, self-respect, confidence and feed your mind with negative emotions such as fear, insecurity and anxiety. Do an appraisal of your environment and pay close attention on your relations and conversations with other people and I am sure that you will detect a lot of toxic food around. Negative people are everywhere around us. If you start talking about your new goals and positive attitude you will notice one common characteristic of negative thinking people- they will try to convince you that it cannot be done, your dream is foolish and hundreds of arguments why is good to stay at the position you are. **Examine your environment carefully and thoroughly. Reconsider your values and behavior in certain situations.** Do you engage yourself or tolerate gossip or cheap talk around you? It is toxic food, detrimental for your mental health and personal integrity and that is really an understatement. Sometimes we are not even conscious that we are infected by this virus, but it can destroy or undermine our authority of relationships in a blink of an eye. **Avoid speaking against yourself or any other person.**
The next phase is to create a **daily mental dietary program** , step by step, starting with little steps. Reevaluate and redefine your goals. In my view the best way is to set 2 or 3 mid-to-long term goals in order to avoid distractions and to set effective time management. Ensure that the goals set out are really yours and think about the influence your environment has on you. Define and write down daily routines that you think will lead you towards success and accomplishing your goals. Write the goals down and track your progress. This is very important because it makes them real decisions rather than just an idea, a wish or a dream. Success involves surrounding and engaging yourself with ambitious and successful people. Successful people are by definition positive thinking people and more open and approachable than others, although it seems that they are too busy and hard to get. Approach a successful person for help or advice (today is easier than ever) and you will see that this is true. Another thing that strengthens the system of positive thinking is spending meaningful time with our families and &quot;real&quot; friends. Just imagine yourself that you might lose them and you will instantly realize that your life is incredible.

I developed a habit to use my free time and breaks during work (no matter whether it is just 15 minutes or longer time available) to read books and articles on related topics, such as personal development and self-discipline. It really charges my body and mind with positive energy and supports my resolution to stick to my goals, to practice positive thinking and attitude towards my environment and life in general.

Create your own daily schedule that will be filled with positive vibes, optimism and encouraging environment. Nobody can do it better than yourself. It is our exclusive power to decide whether we will try to our best today and face the challenges or let the negative emotions overwhelm us. Develop your own habits that will bring you one little step closer to your goals. Embrace the concept or at least few of the main principles of the self-discipline approach on daily basis. **We can make it simply by thinking in the right manner!**

<br />

David Aleksovski

_Author, Passionate Self-Learner_
